Version history:
------- -------

 1.7.8  - 20 January 2003
 	 o Welcome to Release Canidate 3
	 o Fixed build issues introduced in last release
	 o Fix compile errors on SuSE 8.0 + 8.1
	 o Update translations, po/ru.po by Vitaly Lipatov, po/el.po by
	   ta_panta_rei@flashmail.com
	 o Ignore certain splits with an "amount" of zero.
	 o Convert from the old to new symbols for Russian Roubles.
	 o Invoices change a couple of columns.  Enable viewing the "taxable"
	   entry.  Enable viewing all the tax accounts individually.
	 o Scrub hbci include paths to prevent gcc 3.x compile errors.
	 o Default the OFX import directory to the directory of the last OFX
	   file imported, or the user's home dir for the first export.
	   Remembered across invocations of gnucash.
	 o Default the save directory to the directory of the last file used.
	   Default the exports directory to the directory of the last file
	   exported, or the user's home dir for the first export. Remembered
	   across invocations of gnucash.
	 o Correctly handle the case where no stocks have been defined and the
	   user asks gnucash to get price quotes.
	 o Work around bug in ghttp library so that intl users whose whole
	   units/fractions separator is a comma can request web pages.
	 o Add "Default Report Currency" preference.
	 o Set invoice currency based on owner's currency.
	 o Use invoice's currency for printing the invoice.
	 o Make the progress bar argument a double instead of an int.  This
	   gets around an issue with guile 1.6.
	 o Add a checkbox to search-for-all
	 o Changes to make the build system work on multiple architectures and
	   with multiple versions of the autotools suite.  Make generated g-wrap
	   sources depend on config.status.
	 o Remove restriction on guile versions > 1.4 Provide a version
	   dependant load path variable for the SRFI location. (Empty in 1.6
	   since they're bundled with guile.)
	 o Limit QIF matches against only the accounts in the old group, so we
	   don't match against ourselves.  This should limit the matches to only
	   "reasonable" matches.
	 o Remove "user name" and "user address" preferences, as they are no
	   longer used by anything.
	 o Create a taxtable option type using the new generic optionmenu code
	 o Create a default customer and default vendor taxtable option for
	   the "File Properties" option menu.
	 o Reset the search-type to "New Search" if we end up displaying no
	   results.
	 o Use the "New Search Limit" pref to decide when to start a new
	   search vs. when refine the search.
	 o Create two new global preferences: "Notify Bills Due?" and "Bills
	   Due Days"
	 o Added sources needed for OS X to dist.
	 o Lots more bugfixes, see changelog.

 1.7.7  - 05 January 2003
 	 o Welcome to Release Canidate 2
	 o Give the user better feedback on exactly what the exchange rate
	   means.
	 o Better handling of corrupt XML data files.  Print better error
	   messages for unknown tags, or mismatched start/end tags.
	 o When checking for gtkhtml-1.1, make the lack of pkg-config a fatal
	   error. Also check for pkgconfig
	 o Updated translations, po/de.po, 
	 o Fix HBCI reparent warnings. Make the PIN dialog a bit nicer.
	 o Fixes to Postgresql backend.
	 o Changed the "ALTER TABLE table ADD COLUMN..." statements to conform
	   to the current Postgres implementation (and SQL 92) standard by
	   putting the DEFAULT modifier in a separate ALTER statement.  This was
	   reported by Christopher B. Browne.
	 o Implement unpost function in invoices.
	 o Correctly open a help window when the initial URL contains a label
	   component to it.
	 o Make the reconciliation window respect the 'include subaccount'
	   flag any time it opens a register.  Consolidate logic for opening a
	   new register. Enhance the reconciliation start window to update the
	   ending value when this flag is changed.
	 o If the amount is monetary, map the keypad decimal key to the
	   correct decimal character for the locale.
	 o Fix malformed URLs for bringing up a report options window.
	 o Add new option for specifying sort critera for piecharts and
	   barcharts.
	 o The report title should change when the report name field is
	   changed in the options.
	 o Add a smart function for going "back" from the "load a file" page.
	   If there are any files loaded it returns to the "loaded files" page
	   instead of the initial druid page.
	 o Add support for i18n of price source strings.
	 o Add icons to gtk only windows.
	 o Search on NOTES add code to prevent searching on template-txn
	   accounts so SXes don't show up in find results.
	 o Create a 'file compression' option and pass the data into the
	   backend. This is an option in the preferences.
	 o Provide a simple checkbook set of accounts
	 o When editing an exchange rate, always change the _VALUE_ of the
	   split, not the amount.  This has the affect of keeping the visible
	   number the same and changing the "other" account.
	 o Add a set of business accounts to the account setup
	 o Give a much higher importance to the date heuristics in the OFX
	   import. 
	 o Disable skipping transactions which already have an online id
	   during matching, untill a fix for the "transfer between two accounts"
	   bug is properly fixed.
	 o Large set of fixes to the build system by John H. Pierce
	   <john@killterm.org>

 1.7.6  - 22 December 2002
 	 o Welcome to Release Candidate 1
	 o Put the build date into the about box for development versions
	 o Deal with broken QIF files that give broken bang-fields. In
	   particular, handle the case where it supplies "!Type Bank"
	   instead of "!Type:Bank"
	 o Fix g-wrap test to fail properly if it cannot find g-wrap-config
	 o Add "Edit Exchange Rate" menu items to the Actions menu and the
	   context menu
	 o Fix the amount display so that the exchange dialog always shows the
	   "amount" in the the local (register) currency.
	 o Add an additional module to check for (LWP aka libwww-perl)
	   before attempting to call Finance::Quote.
	 o Updated translations, po/nl.po by Hendrik-Jan Heins <hjh@passys.nl>,
	   po/uk.po by Volodymyr M. Lisivka <lvm@mystery.lviv.net>, po/el.po,
	   accounts/el_GR by Nikos Charonitakis <charosn@her.forthnet.gr>
	 o Major update to generic import architecture/transaction matcher.
	 o Change HBCI to using new Transaction Matcher GUI
	 o Require openhbci 0.9.4 for HBCI version choosing.
	 o When not retrieving stock quotes for an account, dim the price
	   source labels as well as the option menus.
	 o Consolidate all knowledge about Finance::Quote sources into one
	   place. Functions to record whether or not F::Q is installed
	   properly, and if so, whether a particular source is available.
	 o Change default new SX frequency to monthly
	 o Filled in a long-thought of idea for a formula cell: can contain
	   text unlike a pricecell, but doesn't really want to do
	   auto-complete like a quickfill cell [what we had been using].  This
	   allows us to provide the gnome formula cell which can remap the
	   keypad '.' character based on locale
	 o Disallow the deletion of accounts with ReadOnly Transacation in
	   them. You must first "delete" the RO Txns before you delete the
	   account.
	 o NOTE: As of now you ABSOLUTELY REQUIRE G-WRAP >= 1.3.3
	 o Loan Druid re-written
	 o Add menu items and code so a user can limit transactions in a
	   register to any combination of the
	   Reconciled/Cleared/Voided/Unreconciled states.
	 o Give user feedback during the rendering of a report.
	 o Remove old user docs and tools that are now in gnucash-docs
	 o Fix for large accounts overflowing the data types used in the
	   register code which are causing crashes.
	 o Add support for new GnuCash icon made by Jakub Steiner
	   <jimmac@ximian.com>
	 o Connect up help buttons in dialog's to help files
	 o Lots more bugfixes
	 
 1.7.5  - 02 December 2002
 	 o Fix for a problem with multi-currency that could result in data
	   corruption. Recommend to use this version over 1.7.4

 1.7.4  - 01 December 2002
	 o Second beta release
	 o Problems with importing 1.6 data files fixed
	 o Updates to generic transaction matching
	 o More postgres backend fixes
	 o New progress bar when making reports
	 o Payment schedule review page added to loan druid
	 o Fixes to multi-currency support
	 o Added Brazilian Portugese account templates by Lucimar Moresco
	 o Added doxygen documentation support, and integrated it into the
	   build system. There is a new target, make doc, that can be used to
	   build the documentation if you have doxygen installed.
	 o Catch the condition gracefully when OpenHBCI config file does not
	   exist.
	 o Compute the implicit exchange rates for ALL transactions when
	   necessary. No longer requires the pricedb for printing split values.
	   This will display all transactions in the currency of the current
	   account, regardless of the number of splits in the transaction.
	 o First pass at getting multi-currency transactions to work from the
	   register.
	 o Lots more bugfixes
 
 1.7.3  - 17 November 2002
 	 o first beta release
	 o improved libofx configure support.  Add --with-ofx-prefix
	   so users can define where to look for libofx.
	 o fixed missing ofx files in tarball
	 o updated gnucash.spec file to work with rh8
	 o added new cashflow report contributed by Herbert Thoma
	 o New functions to get/set read-only status on a transaction, 
	   and to print a warning message if a transaction is read-only.
	 o Added a bunch of currencies.
	 o MAJOR improvement to OFX investment support.  All transactions 
	   created from an investment account are now already balanced.  
	   Explicitely support Dividend Reinvestment transactions which 
	   will now directly create a income account -> stock account 
	   transaction, and Income transactions which will directly create 
	   a income account -> cash account transaction. Support memorising 
	   the income account association. Several stock account can use the 
	   same income account if desired.
	 o Updated translations (merged from 1.6 branch plus updates from 
	   the Translation Project).
	 o Matthew Vanecek added some bug fixes for the SQL back end.
	 o Add support for gtkhtml 1.1
	 o Added calculate the number of remaining payments based on the start
	   date, loan length and current date to Mortgage druid
	 o loads of bugfixes, keep those bugs coming!
	 o NOTE: Report bugs to bugzilla.gnome.org

 1.7.2  - 27 October 2002
 	 o second alpha release
	 o you can now search by reconcile flag
	 o ability to set posted invoices and payments read-only
	 o New commodity matcher for OFX generic import
	 o latest libofx is needed for OFX support
	 o Investment transactions now create two accounts, one is for the
	   stock, the other is the account defined by the FI, where the
	   cash is swapped.
	 o Updated glossary
	 o HBCI improvements to transaction retrieval
	 o Add Direct Debit HBCI action and add caching of the
	   PIN to user preferences.
	 o HBCI suport requires OpenHBCI 0.9.3 or current OpenHBCI CVS
	 o loads of bugfixes, keep those bugs coming!
	 o NOTE: Report bugs to bugzilla.gnome.org
	 
 1.7.1  - 13 October 2002
 	 o first alpha release
	 o lots of new features, please test as much as you can
	 o esp Scheduled Transactions, Small Business and OFX/HBCI.
	 o please check Changelog for exact details
	 o NOTE: Report bugs to bugzilla.gnome.org

 1.5.98 - 04 June 2001
         o second beta release
         o updated documentation (English & Portuguese)
         o updated German and Portuguese translations
         o more work on sql backend
         o fixes for FreeBSD
         o bug fixes

 1.5.97 - 27 May 2001
         o first beta release
         o feature freeze
         o updated documentation
         o updated Norwegian and Portuguese translations
         o bug fixes

 1.5.96 - 20 May 2001
         o second alpha release
         o updated user documentation
         o updated api documentation
         o bug fixes

 1.5.95 - 13 May 2001
         o alpha release, string freeze
         o new user account hierarchy wizard
         o account hierarchy export
         o reporting improvements
         o transfer dialog auto-completion
         o many bug fixes

 1.5.6  - 23 April 2001
         o reporting improvements
         o many misc GUI improvements
         o updated German and Portuguese translations
         o fixes for Solaris
         o bug fixes

 1.5.5  - 15 April 2001
         o more new & improved reports
         o use of gnome MDI for main window
         o GUI improvements
         o bug fixes

 1.5.4  - 01 April 2001
         o several new & improved reports/graphs
         o online price quotes now work
         o new main window display
         o Spanish & Portuguese translations of the manual
         o many bug fixes

 1.5.3  - 25 February 2001
         o new XML file format
         o better support for importing qifs from online banks
         o improved checking register
         o support for charts & graphs
         o financial calculator
         o new user account hierarchy wizard
         o many UI improvements

 1.5.2  - 25 September 2000
         o fixes for Solaris 8
         o fixes for gnome-print 0.23
         o misc bug fixes

 1.5.1  - 18 September 2000
         o new Spanish translation
         o new Russion translation
         o improved qif importing
         o updated documentation
         o lots of bug fixes

 1.5.0  - 9 July 2000
         o switch to gtkhtml widget
         o updated French translations
         o improved qif importing
         o fix for g-wrap 0.9.4
         o misc bug fixes

 1.3.100 - 12 June 2000
         o bug fixes
         o updated documentation
         o updated translations

 1.3.99 - 05 June 2000
         o transaction auto-completion
         o improved qif importing
         o fixes for 64-bit architectures
         o updated translations
         o automaked build system
         o bug fixes and ui improvements

 1.3.8  - 25 May 2000
         o transaction cut/copy/paste
         o new Japanese translations
         o user interface improvements
         o bug fixes

 1.3.7  - 08 May 2000
         o better printing of multiple currencies
         o user interface improvements
         o bug fixes

 1.3.6  - 24 April 2000
         o transaction finder dialog
         o even better qif importing
         o some support for the euro
         o bug fixes

 1.3.5  - 10 April 2000
         o more work on reports and check-printing
         o fixes to qif importing
         o misc bug fixes

 1.3.4  - 27 March 2000
         o alpha code for check printing (requires gnome-print)
         o more i18n of reports
         o auto check numbering
         o bug fixes and GUI improvements

 1.3.3  - 20 March 2000
         o new QIF importer
         o new Swedish and Great Britain translations
         o minor GUI improvements

 1.3.2  - 12 March 2000
         o new French and German translations
         o new French documentation
         o speed improvements in the register
         o more work on reports

 1.3.1  - 05 March 2000
         o qif fixes
         o French documentation

 1.3.0  - 28 February 2000
         o first gnome release of GnuCash
         o many, many, many changes

 1.1.22 - 3 November 1998
         o build break fixes
         o install break fixes

 1.1.21 - 22 October 1998
         o simple report generation infrastructure

 1.1.19 - 5 October 1998
         o fixes to QIF import incl MS-Money import
         o implement rollback in engine; can now commit or reject (undo) edits.

 1.1.17 - 13 Sept 1998 
         o working auto-expand register
         o sort by date, num, amount, memo, descr.
         o list all transactions between two dates.

 1.1.16 - 13 Sept 1998 
         o busted.

 1.1.15 - 9 Aug 1998
         o Everybody's doin it: make xacc into a web server.
         
 1.1.14 - 8 Aug 1998
         o First drop of Qt code
         o A split register that finally more or less works
         o guile configuration code from Rob Browning

 1.1.6 - 8 March 98
         o First drop of GTK code from Jeremy Collins
         o First stab at GTK plotting from Rob Browning
         o German README from Henning Spruth
         o Stock Ledger cleanup
         o fixed up configure, gnome and motif makefile targets

 1.1.5 - 6 March 1998
         o perl scripts for parsing stock quotes from internet
           from Chrostopher B. Browne

 1.1.4 - 1 March 98
         o gui-independent engine code moved to src/engine
         o main motif app code moved to src/motif
         o merged in bug fixes from 1.0.x branch
         o ofx  dtd's  in lib/ofx/dtd
         o misc raw info in raw (e.g. currency codes, country codes)

 1.1.1 - 24 Jan 1998
         o  Alpha level code.  Very broken.
            All new register design -- modularized. 
            Many versin 1.0 ledger functions missing.
            Splits added to engine.  
            May not compile, will probably core dump.
            This is alpha level code, not for general use.

 1.0.18 - 14 June 98
         o Fix Quicken QIF import to recognize "transaction cleared" flag.
         o Add RedHat RPM spec files.
         o Fix a bug in configure.in re. motif flags.
         o Enable European-style dates with --enable-eurodates
         o Fix core dump reading QIF files
         o Fix core dump closing certain windows
         o enable prompt to save to file when WM closes window
         o fix garbling to description field when cancel button hit

 1.0.17 - 14 Feb 98
         o Fix core dump when deleting account with open register windows.
         o Fix core dump when transfering money to deleted (non-existant) account.
         o Fix tabbing between ledger entry and record/cancel/close buttons.
         o MS Money QIF import fixes.
         o obscure fix to Xbae table widget that may fix some mystery core dumps.
         o add CBB, MS-Money QIF export sample files
         o add SCO UnixWare, OpenServer build files
         o precompiled SCO UnixWare 7 and OpenServer 5 binaries

 1.0.16 - 7 Jan 98
         o Leap year fix
         o Solaris compile patches
         o precompiled AIX 4.1 for IBM RS/6000 binary

 1.0.14 - 6 Jan 98
         o Debian package version
         o QIF File format patch for reading CBB-exported QIF's
         o Date bug fix

 1.0.11 - 11 Dec 97
         o large variety of bug fixes, patches, enhancements.

 1.0b1 - 29 Nov 97
         o  Many, many changes by Linas Vepstas to give double entry
            bookkeeping, sub-accounts, income/expense account types, and
            the beginnings of support for the QIF data format.
         o  All "non-standard" libraries needed for xacc (xbae, libhtmlw,
            and libComboBox) are now part of the xacc distribution, to
            make it easier to build xacc.
         o  Applied XbaeMatrixSetCursorPosition patch (needed for quickfill)
            to Linas's modified xbae src.  (So quickfill works again.)
         o  configure script to make it easier to build xacc.
         o  The environment variable XACC_HELP will tell xacc where to
            find the files for the hypertext help.  If XACC_HELP isn't
            set, xacc will default to "./Docs" as the help path.

 0.9 - 08 Sep 97
         o  Lots of code-cleanup.
         o  Adjust Balance window.
         o  Reconcile window!  Makes it easy to reconcile your account
            at the end of the month when you get your new bank statement.
         o  Hypertext, context sensitive help.  A pretty nice add-on,
            thanks to libhtmlw, from NCSA Mosaic.  (Now someone just
            has to write some decent help pages!)
         o  Fixed busy cursor.  Previously the code the switched cursors
            caused the program to crash, so it wasn't enabled.  Now it
            works, and is enabled.

 0.7 - 14 Jul 97
         o  Started adding support for account types other than "BANK".
            Still no support for Portfolio and Mutual accounts.  (They
            are greyed out in the "New Account" window for now.)
         o  Changed the balance field to use red/black text to denote
            negative/positive balance (instead of using a sign... If you
            define USE_NO_COLOR when compiling, it will revert to the
            old method of displaying a '-' in front of negative balances)
         o  Fixed bug in automatic transfers that cause the "From"
            account to always be the first account, and the "To" account
            to possibly be incorrect.  Also, added "[To: ]" "[From: ]"
            (with to account name, and from account name) to the start
            of the memo field, so you can keep track of where the money
            comes from/goes to.

 0.6 - 28 Jun 97
         o  Fixed balance/reconciled field (in bottom right corner
            of register window.  (It sorta works now, with lesstif.
            I don't know about motif... you have to leave the current
            transaction for the balances to be recalculated.)
         o  Rearranged directory structure... the source was growing
            to too many files to have it all in one directory.

 0.5 - 6 Jun 97    Mostly, minor bug fixes
         o  verifyDate  -- affects when accelerator keys in the
            register window cause the date to cross a year boundary
         o  Fixed handling of the date in the transfer window.  Before
            if the user pressed the "transfer" button with an incomplete
            date in the date field, the resulting date would be
            undefined.
         o  If the user doesn't enter data in the description field,
            The number field, the memo field, or one of the amount
            fields, the the new transaction isn't added when the
            user leaves the new transaction, or presses "Record"
         o  Now user is prevented from entering more than one '.'
            in the amount fields in the register and transfer windows.
            Also, the user is prevented from entering more than two
            '/' in the date field in the transfer window.
         o  Fixed a (very small) memory leak in the transfer window.
         o  Fixed a bug in the transfer window that resulted in a
            different amount subtracted from the "from" account as was
            added to the "to" account.
         o  Fixed bug that caused a segfault when deleting the last
            transaction in the register window.
         o  Now if the user is in the last transaction (the empty
            transaction) in the register window, the "Delete" button
            does not do anything.
 
 0.4 - 3 Jun 97
         o  Added "Balance" and "Reconciled" balance to the bottom
            right corner of the register window.  
         o  The main window uses an Xbae-Matrix widget now, instead
            of a list, in order to line up the account names, types,
            and balances in nice columns.
	
 0.2 - First (mostly) functional release.  Most of the buttons,
       and menu bar choices actually do something now.

 0.1 - First demo release.  Lots of buttons, and menu bar choices
       Don't do anything.  The register window is still pretty
       buggy.
