Open, known bugs, desired enhancements:

3)  Selecting "File", "New File" does nothing..

Its supposed to work that way, erasing old work.  Clarify
the docs or change the menu entry name.

10) cleared balances are incorrectly shown for stock accounts

Hmm. verify that this is still broken!?!

13) transfer window should allow share prices to be entered;
    but these should grey out when dealing with ordinary bank accounts.

15) Allow an account to be designated as a double-entry-only account.

18) add (none) to transfer list, or explain that a second selection 
    will clear it.

20) fix quickfill for general ledgers. (it works for
    simple register windows).

21) add "number of shares" to XferWindow

22) add automatic interest computation

23) add mortgages, bonds, other intert bearing instruments.

24) show example of how to do household assets

25) provide menu item to create automaticly a default set
    of income/expense accounts (categories) for business, home use.

26) provide menu item to not show accounts (esp inc/expense)
    acocounts with zero balances.

27) add reports
Well, some of the infrastructure now in place

28) add graphs; use code from xinvest for this?

29) add short-cut menu-icon bar

30) add icons for minimization

31) move resources out of main.c into a resource file.
    This requires fixing install first.

32) "make install" should work
    Umm, I think it does now ??? check this to be sure ...

33) automatic deposit-withdrawl on regular basis.

34) create example accounts for home assets (car, jewelry, etc.
    and how they plug into balance sheet

35) balance sheet, profit&loss sheet.  I wanna know what my net worth is,
    what percentage of it is bank, stocks, car, house.

36) business features, for tracking inventory, costing jobs, etc.

39) create Java version of RegWindow, so that accounts&transactions could
    be deleivered by a web server, and the actual data viewed/modified
    with regwindow.

40) add check-printing ability.

41) add short-cut button-bar, like quicken/lotus

42) add icons for minimized windows

43) write docs for date accelerator keys

44) write docs explaining what "open Subaccount" means.

45) grey out menu entry for "subaccount" unless account
    has sub-accounts.

47) provide a simplified portfolio ledger window.
    Deffered, will be in version 1.1.x

52) add sql interfaces. Use optimistic record modification policies,
    to avoid record locking. Something that is CVS, as opposed to 
    RCS, in style & philosophy.

56) mnemonics don't work in the menus


Fixed bugs:
-----------

> 0) For SGI Irix, 
> Xbae-4.6.2-linas/src/Matrix.h:
>   - Uncomment lines 225 and 269  ( XmNtextField & XmCTextField
>                                    definitions )
Probably fixed with XmVersion work ...


> 1) For SGI Irix,
>     xacc-0.9g/Makefile:
>   - CC=cc
>   - RANLIB=true
should be fixed by configure

> 2)  Typing a name of a .dat file which doesn't exist allows xacc to
>     start, but on the console it prints "FileIO.c: Line 151, error =
>     No such file or directory"
Fixed.

> 4)  Selecting "File", "Open File" and then clicking "Cancel" causes
>     "Bad File" to be printed on the console, and the "Open File"
>     dialog to be displayed again.  No way out of this loop except
>     Ctrl-C.
fixed.

> 5)  Tried to create a file with "touch new.dat"; when I tried to open
>     this file xacc complained that it was both too old, and too new :)
>     Oh well, didn't really expect this to work anyways..  But it would
>     be nice if it had slightly better error checking.
fixed.

> 6)  The "About", "Help", and "License" windows start much too small.  I
>     need to resize them to see any text.
fixed

> 7)  "Help", "Help" shows three links to "Creating a new account".
>     Only the first does anything at all, and it just goes to the
>     "License" information.  Sometimes I need to resize this window
>     before I can use the scrollbar.
fixed.

8) tab-traversing  doesn't work for mutual, stock funds
should work now.

9) For SGI Irix, mystery core dump when creating submenus ...
   related to menu initialization complaints with sgi compiler.
Fixed.

11) stock portfolio should indicate total $ amount of transaction
fixed.

12) all messages should be moved out so that translation to foreign
    languages would be possible.
    -- long messages now in include/main.h, short words are not.
    -- see alpha version 1.1, which has completed work on separating 
       messages, to include/messages.h
    Done January 1998

14) Allow transfers of funds to be done in-line
fixed.

16) QuickFill doesn't work with some window managers
Seems to work now, after 17&19 (navigation/traversal) was fixed.

17) Cells lose focus with some window managers.
fixed. changed XmNnavigation

19) verify that tabbing works for mutual funds and for ledgers
fixed.

37) clean distinction between the data view (the register window)
    and the data (Account.h, Transaction.h) so that data can be feteched
    from multi-user SQL database instead of simple flat files.
    Done, January 1998, in version 1.1.  Engine has been striped of all
    gui elements.

38) Find, if it exists, some ANSI/ISO/POSIX/whatever standard for 
    fincancial software, and code to that.  That in theory makes it more
    interoperable with other possible projects.
    Done, February 1998. Found the "open financial exchange" docs
    which is an intuit/microsoft/checkfree proposal.  No other
    financial standards seem to exist. The ofx dtd's are included
    in version 1.1

46) fix traversal for ledger windows
fixed.

48) allow tab traversal from memo field to commit button in the ledger
    window.
Fixed in version 1.0.17

49) fix recn window. Its completely broken right now.
fixed, I think.

50) provide a menu item to not show income/expense accounts.
    this makes it work more like quicken categories.  See also #26
done. 

53) core dump when reading MS-Money QIF files
Fixed in 1.0.17

54) core dump when deleting an account with open windows
Hack-fixed in 1.0.17 by allowing a memory leak to occur.
Non-memory-leak requires major redesign, and is in version 1.1

55) core dump when picking deleted account in the transfer
    pull-down.
Feb 98 fixed

