
This directory is intended to hold any external code that is needed in
order to build gnucash, but isn't considered widely available.

------------------------------------------------

gtkhtml: gtkhtml is the soon-to-be-released replacement for the
gtk-xmhtml widget that gnucash has used up to now.  It has a few nifty
new features.  The most important one for gnucash's purposes is that
it has direct support for gnome-print, which means that we can now get
nice-looking printouts of reports and help documents.

It also works as an HTML editor, but I haven't tried that yet; might
be nice for future stuff like "live" report editing.

YOU HAVE TO BUILD AND INSTALL GTKHTML BEFORE TRYING TO BUILD GNUCASH.   

I suggest that you install it using the same $prefix you use to
install gnucash.

Building and installing gtkhtml:
--------------------------------

The default configure options for gtkhtml depend on the 'oaf' and
'gconf' packages, which are not yet available/functional, and we don't
need their functionality.  It's important to turn them off in the
configure step.  --without-gconf turns them both off.

If your gnucash install prefix is $prefix,

   cd gtkhtml 
   ./autogen.sh --prefix=$prefix --without-bonobo --without-gconf
   make 
   make install

   export GNOME_PATH=$prefix
   
The 'export GNOME_PATH' is critical if you are installing gtkhtml
somewhere besides /usr ; without it, the gnome-config script that
gnucash's configure depends on won't know that gtkhtml is installed.

If you have built and installed gtkhtml correctly, you should be able
to run the command 'gnome-config --libs gtkhtml' and see some
semi-meaningful output.  If it reports 'Unknown library gtkhtml' you
need to make sure GNOME_PATH is set to your $prefix for gtkhtml.

Once gnome-config reports the correct locations for gtkhtml, you can
go through the normal gnucash configure/build process.

Finance::Quote
--------------

Building and installing Finance::Quote is fairly simple.  It is needed
to perform stock lookups with gnc-prices and other programs.  It can
be built after GnuCash if required.  (If you try to use gnc-prices and
other scripts without Finance::Quote installed, you'll get an ugly
error message.)

Building is simple.  In the finance-quote directory:

	perl Makefile.PL
	make
	make test 	(optional)
	make install	(as root)

This will install the module into the appropriate place where perl modules
live on your system.

Please note that the test scripts for Finance::Quote 1.01 (which is included
here) may take a VERY long time to complete.  This problem is fixed in
version 1.02 (which is still in development at the time of writing this
README).
